README.md, before:

# University Results Calculator

A lightweight browser app for tracking your degree average as you go, with a running weighted average (RWA) that updates the moment you add a grade.

No install, no build step - just open `index.html`.

![Screenshot of the app showing RWA, year averages, target analysis, and what-if](screenshot.png)

---

## What it does

- Tracks module grades across any number of years, each with configurable credit weightings
- Computes a **running weighted average** normalised to the years that have data (so if you've only entered Year 2 grades, the RWA reflects Year 2 alone, not a half-baked weighted sum)
- For each target grade (default: 70%, 75%, 80%), shows the average you need across all remaining credits to hit it
- **What-if**: type a hypothetical grade and see your projected final RWA instantly
- Lets you name each module and edit grades in place without deleting and re-adding
- Export your grades as CSV or JSON for a backup or to move between browsers
- Persists everything in browser local storage - grades survive page refreshes

## How to run

```
open index.html
```

Or double-click it in Finder. That's it.

To run the Python version (useful for scripting or checking the maths):

```bash
python uni_results.py
```

Requires Python 3. No third-party packages.

## How the RWA is calculated

Each year has a weighting (e.g. Year 2 = 40%, Year 3 = 60%). The RWA is the weighted average of the year averages, normalised by the total weight of years that have any grades entered:

```
RWA = Σ(weight_i × year_avg_i) / Σ(weight_i)
```

where the sums are only over years with at least one grade. This means the RWA is always a meaningful percentage, not a partial weighted sum.

The **required average** calculation works backwards: given how much of the degree is already locked in, what average do you need across all remaining credits (across all years) to reach the target?

The **what-if** calculation goes the other way: fill every remaining credit slot with your hypothetical grade and compute the resulting RWA using the full year weight denominator (since all years now have data).

## Settings

Click **Settings** to change:

- Year weightings and total credits per year (years can be added or removed - useful for integrated masters, medicine, or dentistry courses)
- Target grades shown in the analysis panel
- Export your data as CSV or JSON

Weightings don't need to sum to 100. Settings are saved in local storage alongside your grades.

## Project structure

```
index.html       — app shell and settings modal
style.css        — all styling, no framework
app.js           — UniResults class + UI logic
uni_results.py   — same logic in Python, runnable standalone
```

## Customising for your course

The defaults are Year 2 (40%) and Year 3 (60%), each with 120 credits. You can change any of this at runtime via Settings without touching the code, or update the defaults in `app.js`:

```js
const DEFAULT_STATE = {
  weightings: { 2: 0.4, 3: 0.6 },
  totalCredits: { 2: 120, 3: 120 },
  ...
};
```

Commit message:

Add JSON import and update README.md
- Import JSON button in Settings > Data restores state from a previously exported file, with validation on required fields and module structure
- Resets active year if the imported file doesn't include the currently selected year
- Updated README.md to document import alongside export

README.md, after:

# University Results Calculator

A lightweight browser app for tracking your degree average as you go, with a running weighted average (RWA) that updates the moment you add a grade.

No install, no build step - just open `index.html`.

![Screenshot of the app showing RWA, year averages, target analysis, and what-if](screenshot.png)

---

## What it does

- Tracks module grades across any number of years, each with configurable credit weightings
- Computes a **running weighted average** normalised to the years that have data (so if you've only entered Year 2 grades, the RWA reflects Year 2 alone, not a half-baked weighted sum)
- For each target grade (default: 70%, 75%, 80%), shows the average you need across all remaining credits to hit it
- **What-if**: type a hypothetical grade and see your projected final RWA instantly
- Lets you name each module and edit grades in place without deleting and re-adding
- Export your grades as CSV or JSON, and import a previously exported JSON file to restore or move between browsers
- Persists everything in browser local storage - grades survive page refreshes

## How to run

```
open index.html
```

Or double-click it in Finder. That's it.

To run the Python version (useful for scripting or checking the maths):

```bash
python uni_results.py
```

Requires Python 3. No third-party packages.

## How the RWA is calculated

Each year has a weighting (e.g. Year 2 = 40%, Year 3 = 60%). The RWA is the weighted average of the year averages, normalised by the total weight of years that have any grades entered:

```
RWA = Σ(weight_i × year_avg_i) / Σ(weight_i)
```

where the sums are only over years with at least one grade. This means the RWA is always a meaningful percentage, not a partial weighted sum.

The **required average** calculation works backwards: given how much of the degree is already locked in, what average do you need across all remaining credits (across all years) to reach the target?

The **what-if** calculation goes the other way: fill every remaining credit slot with your hypothetical grade and compute the resulting RWA using the full year weight denominator (since all years now have data).

## Settings

Click **Settings** to change:

- Year weightings and total credits per year (years can be added or removed - useful for integrated masters, medicine, or dentistry courses)
- Target grades shown in the analysis panel
- Export your data as CSV or JSON, and import a JSON backup to restore grades or switch browsers

Weightings don't need to sum to 100. Settings are saved in local storage alongside your grades.

## Project structure

```
index.html       — app shell and settings modal
style.css        — all styling, no framework
app.js           — UniResults class + UI logic
uni_results.py   — same logic in Python, runnable standalone
```

## Customising for your course

The defaults are Year 2 (40%) and Year 3 (60%), each with 120 credits. You can change any of this at runtime via Settings without touching the code, or update the defaults in `app.js`:

```js
const DEFAULT_STATE = {
  weightings: { 2: 0.4, 3: 0.6 },
  totalCredits: { 2: 120, 3: 120 },
  ...
};
```
